wiki/installation_guide.md, before:

\page installation_guide Installation Guide

## Table of Contents
- [C++ Executable File](#executable_install)
- [Python Library](#python_install)
  - [Installation from Source](#python_source)
  - [Installation From PyPI (upcoming)](#python_pypi)

<br>

\anchor executable_install
# C++ Executable File
To install the executable version of NEFFy:
1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd Neffy
    ```
3. Compile the code using a C++ compiler that supports C++17 or a newer version, through the provided [Makefile](https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy/blob/main/Makefile) in the repository.
    ```
    make
    ```
  - **If the `make` command is not available on your operating system, refer to the [Help](\ref help) page.**

Once the compilation is complete, you can run the program via the command line. <br/>
This package is cross-platform and works on Linux, Windows, and macOS without requiring additional compilation.

<br>

---
\anchor python_install
# Python Library

\anchor python_source
## Installation from Source

To install the library from the source:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd Neffy
    ```
3. Ensure you have `setuptools` and `wheel` installed:
    ```bash
    pip install setuptools wheel
    ```
4. Build the source distribution and wheel:
    ```bash
    python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
    ```
5. Install the package from the root directory of the project:
    ```bash
    pip install .
    ```
  - Alternatively, you can install the package directly from the built wheel file (in the `dist` directory):
    ```bash
    pip install dist/neffy-0.1-py3-none-any.whl
    ```

\anchor python_pypi
## Installation from PyPI (upcoming)
Our Python library will soon be available on PyPI. This will make it easier for you to install and manage the library using pip. <br>
To install the package from PyPI:
```bash
    pip install neffy
    ```
<br>

----------------
For further assistance or inquiries, please [contact the developer](mailto:haghani@vt.edu) or create an [issue](https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy/issues) in the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

Make package ready to distribute on PyPI

wiki/installation_guide.md, after:

\page installation_guide Installation Guide

## Table of Contents
- [C++ Executable File](#executable_install)
- [Python Library](#python_install)
  - [Installation from Source](#python_source)
  - [Installation From PyPI (upcoming)](#python_pypi)

<br>

\anchor executable_install
# C++ Executable File
To install the executable version of NEFFy:
1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd Neffy
    ```
3. Compile the code using a C++ compiler that supports C++17 or a newer version, through the provided [Makefile](https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy/blob/main/Makefile) in the repository.
    ```
    make
    ```
  - **If the `make` command is not available on your operating system, refer to the [Help](\ref help) page.**

Once the compilation is complete, you can run the program via the command line. <br/>
This package is cross-platform and works on Linux, Windows, and macOS without requiring additional compilation.

<br>

---
\anchor python_install
# Python Library

\anchor python_source
## Installation from Source

To install the library from the source:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd Neffy
    ```
3. Ensure you have `setuptools` and `wheel` installed:
    ```bash
    pip install setuptools wheel
    ```
4. Build the source distribution and wheel:
    ```bash
    python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
    ```
5. Install the package from the root directory of the project:
    ```bash
    pip install .
    ```
   
- Alternatively, you can install the package directly from the built wheel file (in the `dist` directory):
    ```bash
    pip install dist/neffy-0.1-py3-none-any.whl
    ```

\anchor python_pypi
## Installation from PyPI
Our Python library is available on [`PyPI`](https://pypi.org/project/neffy).
This release provides pre-built, platform-specific wheels for Windows, Linux, and macOS, as well as a source distribution for building on other operating systems. This streamlines the installation and management process using pip.<br>
- To install the package from PyPI, run:
    ```bash
    pip install neffy
    ```
<br>

----------------
For further assistance or inquiries, please [contact the developer](mailto:haghani@vt.edu) or create an [issue](https://github.com/Maryam-Haghani/Neffy/issues) in the GitHub repository.
